LAW: SPECIFIC RELIEF ACT 1950
SECTION 7: Recovery of specific immovable property
(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person entitled to the possession
of specific immovable property may recover it in the manner
prescribed by the law relating to civil procedure.
(2) Where a specific immovable property has been let under a
tenancy, and that tenancy is determined or has come to an end, but
the occupier continues to remain in occupation of the property or
part thereof, the person entitled to the possession of the property
shall not enforce his right to recover it against the occupier otherwise
than by proceedings in the court.
(3) In subsection (2) “occupier” means any person lawfully in
occupation of the property or part thereof at the termination of the
tenancy.

SECTION 8: Suit by person dispossessed of immovable property
(1) If any person is dispossessed without his consent of immovable
property otherwise than in due course of law, he or any person
claiming through him may, by suit, recover possession thereof,
notwithstanding any other title that may be set up in the suit.
(2) Nothing in this section shall bar any person from suing to
establish his title to any such property and to recover possession
thereof.
(3) No suit under this section shall be brought against any
Government in Malaysia.
(4) No appeal shall lie from any order or decree passed in any
suit instituted under this section, nor shall any review of any such
order or decree be allowed.

LAW: CIVIL LAW ACT 1956
SECTION 28(4): Double rent for holding over
Every tenant holding over after the determination of his tenancy shall be chargeable, at the option of his landlord, with double the amount of his rent until possession is given up by him or with double the value during the period of detention of the land or premises so detained, whether notice to that effect has been given or not.

LAW: DISTRESS ACT 1951
SECTION 4: No distress otherwise than under this Act
No landlord shall distrain for rent except in the manner provided by this Act.

SECTION 5: Application for warrant of distress
(1) A landlord or his agent duly authorized in writing may apply ex parte to a Judge or Registrar for an order
for the issue of a warrant, to be called a warrant of distress, for the recovery of rent due or payable to the
landlord by a tenant of any premises for a period not exceeding twelve completed months of the tenancy
immediately preceding the date of the application and the Judge or Registrar may make such order
accordingly.
(2) Such authority may be in the prescribed form, if any, with such variations as circumstances require, and
shall be produced at the time of the application. A power of attorney may be accepted as such authority.
(3) Arrears of rent may be distrained for after the determination of the tenancy, provided that either the tenant
is still in occupation of the premises in respect of which the rent is claimed to be due, or any goods of the
tenant are still on the premises.

SECTION 8: Property exempted from seizure
Property seizable under a warrant of distress shall not include--
(a) things in actual use in the hands of a person at the time of the seizure;
(b) tools and implements not in use, where there is other movable property in or upon the house or
premises sufficient to cover the amount and costs;
(c) the tenant's necessary wearing apparel and necessary bedding for himself and his family;
(d) goods in the possession of the tenant for the purpose of being carried, wrought, worked up, or
otherwise dealt with in the course of his ordinary trade or business;
(e) goods belonging to guests at an inn;
(f) goods in the custody of the law;
(g) property of any Government, property vested in any local authority for local authority purposes,
and property vested for public purposes in any person or body of persons, whether
incorporated or not, which the Minister may by notification in the Gazette declare to be
exempted from distress proceedings.

SECTION 21: Removal of goods to avoid distress
(1) If any person removes or causes or permits to be removed from any premises property liable to be seized
under a warrant of distress, with the intention of hindering or preventing the distraint thereof, a Judge may,
on application by the landlord, authorize the bailiff, within thirty days of such removal, to follow and seize
such property in execution of the warrant, wherever it may be found, and to deal therewith as if it had been
seized on the premises.
(2) The bailiff may, without an order to that effect, follow and seize any such property discovered by him
while in process of removal.
